MASTER PROMPT LIBRARY 
 Master-Library-Prompt
AI project 
Here is a professional README.md documentation for the project:

Professional Prompt Library

Project Overview

The Professional Prompt Library is a curated collection of high-quality, reusable AI prompts designed for common professional tasks. The project demonstrates practical applications of Prompt Engineering using established frameworks such as ROLE, CREATE, and Chain of Thought (CoT).

This library serves as a professional toolkit that can be reused across business, legal, project management, marketing, and technical environments.



Project Objectives

- Consolidate Prompt Engineering concepts into practical resources.
- Create reusable prompts for professional applications.
- Demonstrate the use of structured prompting frameworks.
- Apply the "Ask Me Questions First" technique for greater accuracy.
- Develop a portfolio-ready professional resource.



Features

1. Business Pitch or Proposal Draft Prompt

Framework: ROLE

Purpose: Generate professional business proposals and stakeholder presentations.

Applications:

- Funding proposals
- Startup pitches
- School project proposals
- Business expansion plans



2. Formal Legal or Policy Inquiry Prompt

Framework: CREATE

Purpose: Draft formal legal, regulatory, or policy-related inquiries.

Applications:

- Compliance requests
- Policy clarification letters
- Legal correspondence
- Regulatory communications



3. Project Management Plan Prompt

Framework: Chain of Thought (CoT)

Purpose: Develop detailed project plans with milestones and timelines.

Applications:

- Software projects
- Academic projects
- Event planning
- Organizational initiatives



4. Marketing Copy and Social Media Strategy Prompt

Framework: ROLE

Purpose: Create audience-focused marketing content and campaign strategies.

Applications:

- Social media campaigns
- Product launches
- Brand awareness campaigns
- Content marketing



5. Technical Documentation and Code Review Prompt

Framework: CREATE

Purpose: Review technical documents and software code for quality improvement.

Applications:

- Software development
- Technical documentation
- Security assessments
- Code quality reviews


Ask Me Questions First Technique

Before generating outputs, the AI should gather critical information:

1. What is the primary objective?
2. Who is the target audience?
3. What format is required?
4. What constraints must be followed?
5. How will success be measured?

This approach improves accuracy, relevance, and output quality.


Frameworks Used

ROLE Framework

Assigns a specific professional role to the AI before performing a task.

Example:
"You are an experienced business consultant..."

CREATE Framework

Provides structured instructions for content creation.

Components:

- Context
- Requirements
- Examples
- Audience
- Tone
- Evaluation

Chain of Thought (CoT)

Encourages step-by-step reasoning for complex tasks.

Benefits:

- Better planning
- Improved accuracy
- Logical decision-making



Quality Evaluation Criteria

Each prompt was evaluated based on:

Criteria| Description
Clarity| Clear and understandable instructions
Reusability| Applicable across multiple scenarios
Precision| Generates focused outputs
Adaptability| Easy customization
Professional Value| Suitable for workplace use

Scores range from 1–10, with all prompts scoring above 8.5.


Project Deliverables

- Professional Prompt Library
- Example Outputs
- Quality Assessment Scores
- Quick Reference Card
- PDF Documentation



Learning Outcomes

By completing this project, users will:

- Understand advanced prompting techniques.
- Apply ROLE, CREATE, and CoT frameworks.
- Improve AI output quality through clarification questions.
- Build reusable professional assets.
- Develop practical Prompt Engineering skills.


Author

Prepared as part of the AI Literacy & Prompt Engineering Professional Roadmap capstone project.
Master Prompt Library
A Professional Toolkit for High-Quality AI Prompting
Introduction
This prompt library is a curated collection of reusable professional prompts designed for common workplace and academic tasks. Each prompt follows a structured prompting framework to improve clarity, precision, and output quality.
The library focuses on:
Better prompt engineering techniques
Reusable professional templates
Precision through the “Ask Me Questions First” method
Consistent, high-quality AI outputs
The frameworks used include:
ROLE Framework — Assigns the AI a professional role and clear objective.
CREATE Framework — Context, Request, Examples, Audience, Tone, Extras.
CoT (Chain of Thought) — Encourages step-by-step reasoning for complex tasks.
1. Business Pitch / Proposal Draft Prompt
Framework Used: ROLE
Purpose
Used for creating professional business proposals, sponsorship requests, investment pitches, or partnership letters.
Full Prompt Template
Plain text
You are an experienced business consultant and proposal writer.

TASK:
Create a professional business proposal for:
[Business Name or Idea]

TARGET AUDIENCE:
[Investor / Sponsor / School Board / Client]

OBJECTIVE:
[What you want to achieve]

KEY DETAILS:
- Budget: [Insert Budget]
- Timeline: [Insert Timeline]
- Expected Benefits: [Insert Benefits]
- Problem Being Solved: [Insert Problem]

TONE:
Professional, persuasive, and concise.

STRUCTURE:
1. Executive Summary
2. Problem Statement
3. Proposed Solution
4. Budget and Timeline
5. Expected Outcomes
6. Closing Statement

Before writing, ask me any important questions needed to improve the proposal.
Example Output
Executive Summary
SkyTrack Aviation Club seeks sponsorship support to expand aviation training opportunities for high school students. The program aims to equip learners with practical aviation knowledge and leadership skills through weekly lessons, simulations, and industry exposure.
Problem Statement
Many students interested in aviation lack access to practical learning resources and mentorship opportunities.
Proposed Solution
The club proposes establishing a mini aviation resource center with simulation software, aviation manuals, and guest training sessions.
Budget and Timeline
The project requires KSh 120,000 and will be implemented over 4 months.
Expected Outcomes
Increased student participation
Improved aviation knowledge
Career exposure opportunities
Closing Statement
We believe this initiative will inspire future aviation professionals and strengthen STEM education among students.
Quality Score: 9/10
Justification
Clear structure
Strong professional tone
Flexible for many industries
“Ask Questions First” improves accuracy
Minor limitation:
Requires user details before maximum effectiveness.
2. Formal Legal or Policy Inquiry Prompt
Framework Used: CREATE
Purpose
Used for drafting formal inquiries, policy clarification requests, or legal communication.
Full Prompt Template
Plain text
CONTEXT:
I need a formal legal/policy inquiry regarding:
[Insert Issue]

REQUEST:
Draft a professional inquiry seeking clarification about:
[Insert Concern]

EXAMPLES:
Use formal institutional language similar to government or corporate communication.

AUDIENCE:
[School Administration / Company HR / Government Office]

TONE:
Respectful, formal, and precise.

EXTRAS:
- Include a subject heading
- Maintain neutrality
- Avoid emotional language
- Suggest possible next steps

Before drafting, ask me questions to clarify the situation.
Example Output
Subject: Request for Clarification on Student Leadership Selection Criteria
Dear Administration,
I hope this message finds you well.
I am writing to respectfully seek clarification regarding the criteria used in selecting student leaders for the upcoming academic term. Understanding the process will help students better prepare themselves for future leadership opportunities.
Specifically, I would appreciate information concerning:
Eligibility requirements
Evaluation procedures
Leadership expectations
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Yours faithfully,
John Doe
Quality Score: 8.5/10
Justification
Excellent professionalism
Encourages neutrality
Highly adaptable
Limitation:
Some legal matters may still require expert human review.
3. Project Management Plan / Timeline Prompt
Framework Used: CoT (Chain of Thought)
Purpose
Used for planning events, projects, club activities, or business operations.
Full Prompt Template
Plain text
You are a certified project manager.

TASK:
Create a detailed project management plan for:
[Insert Project Name]

PROJECT DETAILS:
- Goal: [Insert Goal]
- Duration: [Insert Duration]
- Team Members: [Insert Team]
- Budget: [Insert Budget]
- Deliverables: [Insert Deliverables]

INSTRUCTIONS:
Think step-by-step and organize the plan into:
1. Project Objectives
2. Task Breakdown
3. Timeline
4. Risk Management
5. Team Responsibilities
6. Monitoring and Evaluation

Use tables where necessary.

Before generating the plan, ask important clarification questions first.
Example Output
Task
Responsible Person
Deadline
Venue Booking
Operations Team
Week 1
Marketing Campaign
Media Team
Week 2
Participant Registration
Admin Team
Week 3
Event Execution
Entire Team
Week 4
Risk Management
Weather disruptions → Prepare indoor backup venue
Budget shortages → Seek sponsorship support
Quality Score: 9.5/10
Justification
Highly organized
Encourages logical thinking
Excellent for teamwork and planning
Very effective for academic and professional projects.
4. Marketing Copy / Social Media Strategy Prompt
Framework Used: ROLE
Purpose
Used for advertisements, brand awareness campaigns, and social media growth strategies.
Full Prompt Template
Plain text
You are a professional digital marketing strategist.

TASK:
Create a social media marketing strategy for:
[Brand/Product/Event]

TARGET AUDIENCE:
[Age Group / Industry / Interests]

PLATFORMS:
[Instagram / TikTok / LinkedIn / Facebook]

GOALS:
[Increase sales / Awareness / Engagement]

DELIVERABLES:
1. Content Strategy
2. Posting Schedule
3. Caption Examples
4. Hashtag Suggestions
5. Engagement Techniques

TONE:
Modern, engaging, and audience-focused.

Before generating the strategy, ask me questions about the brand identity and target audience.
Example Output
Content Strategy
Monday: Educational posts
Wednesday: Behind-the-scenes videos
Friday: Customer testimonials
Caption Example
“Dreaming of flying high? Join the future of aviation learning today!”
Hashtags
#AviationClub #FuturePilots #STEMEducation
Quality Score: 8.8/10
Justification
Practical and modern
Easy to customize
Supports audience targeting
Limitation:
Trends change rapidly and may need updating.
5. Technical Documentation / Code Review Prompt
Framework Used: CREATE + CoT
Purpose
Used for reviewing code, generating technical documentation, or improving software projects.
Full Prompt Template
Plain text
CONTEXT:
I have a software project involving:
[Insert Technology Stack]

REQUEST:
Review the code/documentation and provide:
- Error detection
- Optimization suggestions
- Security improvements
- Readability improvements
- Documentation comments

AUDIENCE:
Developers and technical team members.

TONE:
Professional and educational.

EXTRAS:
Explain your reasoning step-by-step before suggesting improvements.

If information is missing, ask clarification questions first.
Example Output
Code Review Findings
Variable names are inconsistent.
API keys should not be stored directly in source files.
Add comments to complex functions.
Suggested Improvement
JavaScript
// Improved variable naming
const userProfileData = fetchUserData();
Documentation Suggestion
Add a README section explaining installation steps and dependencies.
Quality Score: 9/10
Justification
Encourages deep analysis
Improves technical quality
Promotes best coding practices
Very useful for collaborative software development.
Quick Reference Card
Use Case
Best Framework
Best For
Strength
Business Proposal
ROLE
Sponsorships, investments
Professional structure
Legal/Policy Inquiry
CREATE
Formal communication
Clarity and neutrality
Project Management
CoT
Planning and execution
Logical organization
Marketing Strategy
ROLE
Branding and promotion
Audience engagement
Technical Documentation
CREATE + CoT
Software and coding
Detailed analysis
Best Practices for Professional Prompting
1. Ask Questions First
Always encourage the AI to request missing information before generating the final output.
Example:
“Before answering, ask me any important questions needed for accuracy.”
2. Define the Role Clearly
Giving the AI a role improves relevance and professionalism.
Example:
“You are an experienced corporate lawyer.”
3. Specify Tone and Audience
Outputs become more accurate when the intended audience is defined.
4. Use Structured Formatting
Structured prompts produce cleaner, more organized responses.
5. Include Constraints
Examples:
Word limits
Formality level
Output format
Timeline requirements
Conclusion
This Master Prompt Library demonstrates how structured prompting frameworks can transform AI into a professional productivity tool. By combining ROLE, CREATE, and CoT methods with precision questioning techniques, users can consistently generate high-quality outputs for academic, technical, legal, business, and creative tasks.
This toolkit can continue expanding over time and serve as a long-term professional resource for effective AI-assisted work.


